		[EXTORTION INDUSTORY: GAMES WERE NEVER PRODUCTS]


...EXTORTION INDUSTRY

1.  GAMES WERE NEVER PRODUCTS
    a.  If you think you've ever purchased or owned a game, you've been lied to.
        Games are software, information. The troublesome thing about information 
        is that it's not a tangible, irreproducible good. It can't be traded. The 
        only thing that can be exchanged are the ownership rights associated with 
        that information.
    b.  Instead, what you've paid money for is a service. You're paying for rent 
        to a license that gives you the right to use the game. The license you've 
        rented is the only thing that distinguishes you from someone who pirated 
        the same software. Without the license, you are liable to be sued under 
        "copyright infringement" by the company that maintains ownership of the 
        copyright. This is written out clearly, if in fine print, in every End 
        User License Agreement and, yes, the rent can be revoked at will without 
        warning or consequence.
    c.  The software itself is not important. The game is already freely 
        available across the internet. It's playing (or sharing) the game without 
        possessing the appropriate license that leaves you vulnerable to a 
        lawsuit.

2.  PROTECTION RACKET
    a.  So why is this point important? Ask yourself, if the game can already be 
        found and played for free, what value is the company providing in 
        exchange for your money? What service does renting their license provide?
    b.  Protection from their own threat. You're renting a license to not be 
        sued. In any other industry this is known as a protection racket: 
        manufacture a threat where one did not exist before, require payment to 
        be protected 
        from it. In videogames, this is known as business.

3.  DISTORTION OF COPYRIGHT LAW
    a.  How do they get away with it? Extortion is normally illegal because only 
        the State has the right to threaten violence. So they use the State, by 
        employing a distorted definition of copyright law and embroiling 
        individuals in a massive, unwinnable lawsuits.

..."SELLING" INFORMATION IS UNETHICAL

1. "BUT THEY AUTHORED THE GAME!"
    a.  Authoring a thing does not give anyone a right to extortion. It also 
        doesn't entitle anyone to profit. Profit is made by providing a good or 
        service with real value to consumers, which is determined by supplying a 
        thing with unmet demand. The price paid is derived from that value 
        provided. 
    b.  By nature of information's reproducibility, any software released into 
        the public can be expected to be shared freely and widely. In other 
        words, information is a product with infinite supply. Regardless of how 
        much demand is present, a product with infinite supply does not have real 
        value.
    c.  Instead of competing fairly in the free market by finding a way to 
        provide value for the customer, the industry just resorted to extortion 
        by exploiting a loophole in copyright law. In this way they could 
        artificially set the price to whatever they want, and threaten anyone who 
        attempts to obtain it for its real value of $0.

2.  WHY GAMES WOULD STILL BE MADE
    a.  It should go without saying but a market whose entire provided value 
        relies on state intervention is not natural. Videogames will continue to 
        exist even if the state-backed extortion racket suddenly ended, because 
        in a free market, if there's demand for a thing, a way to produce it will 
        always be found.
    b.  Extortion is definitely not the only possible way to monetize videogames, 
        it's just the easiest and most profitable. New incentive models will 
        quickly be developed. They might take the form of returning to an 
        emphasis on physical collector's items, or looking towards ad-based 
        revenue, or some other unseen models. It might mean seeing a 
        de-emphasisis on commercialism through non-profit/donations or FOSS-style 
        group contribution. It's impossible to tell, but what is certain is 
        models will be developed to meet all the demand that exists, be it for 
        high-budget AAA spectacles or low-tech indie experiments.

3.  EXTORTION HAS BECOME DOGMA
    a.  The industry has accomplished instilling the disingenous idea that games 
        are goods that need to be bought to be played. The sophistic language of 
        "purchasing" "buying" or "owning" is used to cloud the extortive nature 
        of the transaction: the reality that a protection license is being 
        rented, not a game "bought". Any thing sold at a price is participating 
        in extortion, and developer or distributor that makes use of that 
        language is complicit in normalizing it.
    b.  People have fallen for it so hard that even knowing their extortion is a 
        bluff, they feel being willingly exploited is somehow the right thing to 
        do. It's not.

...SUPPORTING DEVELOPERS ETHICALLY
1.  AUTHORS CANNOT CONTROL DISTRIBUTION OR RECEPTION
    a.  Authorship over a game gives the creator the right to say they made it. 
        That's it. It doesn't give them the right to control in any way how 
        people receive the work, what they think of it or what they do with it.
    b.  Once the game is released into the public domain, it is beyond the 
        developer's control. They can do nothing to stop anyone from sharing it 
        or playing, even if they wanted to. And the consumer has every right to 
        enjoy the game in any way they please. They have no obligation to reward 
        the developer for making it, for any reason. Donation is always a choice.
2.  DEVELOPERS ARE NOT ENTITLED TO PROFITS
    a.  It should always be remembered that the developer is not entitled to make 
        money off his game just because he took the time to make it.
    b.  If the author wanted to profit of their work, they should have considered 
        producing something with real value. It is not the onus of the consumer 
        to pay an artificially high price derived from the work put into the 
        product, and ignore the real price-value of the product, just because of 
        the producer's own failure to be market efficient. And it certainly does 
        not justify them to resort to extortion to reap unrealized profits they 
        feel entitled to.
3.  "BUY GAMES YOU LIKE"
    a.  In reality, the extortion threats are fairly empty. They work well to 
        scare the average consumer, but most enthuisasts know it is easy to 
        escape culpability with proper security measures. Yet, it is commonly 
        suggested enthuisasts have a duty to buy games they enjoy in order to 
        support the ongoing development of videogames, anyway.
    b.  If the extortion threat is meaningless, the protection license becomes  
        meaningless too. Then what does it mean to "purchase" a game? There is no 
        value being provided in the transaction, not even the artifical 
        protection value. Thus, it's a donation. The only reason enthusiasts do 
        this is to support the company they like, same as someone might 
        contribute to a church or charity organization.
    c.  The difference is that they are supporting extortionists, hiding behind 
        disingenous langauge, such that donation is most often not an available 
        option. Supporting them means "buying" from them which means giving 
        yourself up to their exploitation - but knowingly. Calling their 
        extortion bluff, yet paying them the protection money anyway.
    d.  Is this really a sustainable support model? The adage of "paying for 
        games you like" is a noble assertion at its surface, but is there really 
        much nobility in choosing to be exploited?

4.  DONATIONS, NOT PURCHASES
    a.  Games should only be supported if they are released ethically.
    b.  There is no ethical way to "sell" games. A developer must expect and 
        accept that their game will be shared freely the moment it is released to 
        the public domain. If the developer charges any more than $0 they are 
        performing extortion. If they use the disingenous language of extortion 
        (e.g. "Pay What You Want") they are complicit in its normalization.
    c.  Donate What You Want is the only ethical model.

...ON PIRACY
  It's often said on videogame forums that pirates are exploiting developers, are 
  entitled and are acting immoral. In reality, the opposite is true in each case.

1.  DEVELOPERS ARE ENTITLED, NOT CONSUMERS
    a.  The developers feel entitled to a profit despite making a valueless 
        product. There is no justification for this. They feel so strongly 
        entitled to their undeserved profits they regularly resort to both 
        extortion and violating the freedom of information.
    b.  Conversely, the only entitlement piracy employs is the human right to the 
        freedom of information.

2.  DEVELOPERS ARE PERFORMING EXPLOITATION, NOT PIRATES
    a.  Developer entitlement manages to be both an act of extortion and a 
        violation of two separate human rights. I invite you to find a level of 
        exploitation more extreme.
    b.  Pirates fighting against them in an unpaid effort to secure the right to 
        internet freedom for the greater community cannot possibly be construed 
        as exploitative, yet here we are.

3.  BUYING GAMES IS IMMORAL, NOT PIRATING THEM
    a.  If you "purchase" a game, you're supporting and continuing the extortion 
        industry. Doing so knowingly is unethical.
    b.  If you only play and donate to games released ethically and ignore all 
        others, you are playing a part in hurting the extortion industry through 
        boycotting and supporting the non-harmful alternative. This is good, but 
        it's not the best you can do.
    c.  Piracy works directly to undermine the extortion industry, through 
        cracking and sharing its unethically released software. They work solely 
        out of good will in the name of securing the right to information 
        freedom. Even taking the passive role of simply downloading pirated 
        games, supports the alternative that directly hurts the extortion 
        industry, rather than simply boycotting it. Piracy of any form is the 
        most ethical action you can take.

GAMES WERE NEVER PRODUCTS: MANIFESTO
====================================

1. THERE IS NO ETHICAL WAY TO "SELL" GAMES.

2. PAYING MONEY FOR A FREELY AVAILABLE GAME IS DONATION.

3. DONATION IS ALWAYS A CHOICE.

4. AUTHORSHIP DOES NOT CONTROL DISTRIBUTION.

5. DEVELOPER ENTITLEMENT MUST END.

6. DONATION, PIRACY OR NOTHING.


03-2019